Welcome to JW Broadcasting. This is my friend and co-host Isark Mare. Isark was in
store for this month's program. Thank you brother Mouche. This month will
examine the many ways Jehovah assures us that he is with us. Our music video for
this month shows how from the moment that we start to take steps towards
dedication and baptism Jehovah draws close to us. Jehovah is also with us in the
ministry. In this report we'll see how he blessed a special preaching effort in
Europe and Jehovah is with us as we meet challenges of daily life as our
sister Rita and her children learned. That sounds exciting. Let's get started. This
is the November 2019 edition of JW Broadcasting. Millions have benefited from the
animated series become Jehovah's Friend and many other Bible based videos. Have
you enjoyed getting to know Caleb and Sophia? When you watch the video perhaps
you've wondered how does the governing body know that the video will turn out
exactly right. How can they see and hear the video before it exists? Let's go
behind the scenes and see how this works. Animated videos like those in this
series become Jehovah's Friend have been helping young ones draw closer to
their heavenly father for several years now. But did you know what you see on
the screen might last just a few short minutes. But it may involve weeks of
work by a virtual army of volunteers. With so much time and expense involved in
making an animated video a lot of careful planning is required to avoid waste
and keep the process running smoothly. Let's take a look at how effective use of
pre-production tools help all these brothers and sisters work together to
take a video from initial concept to a final production. Under the direction of
the teaching committee of the governing body, the work begins long before the
artist even gets started. They provide the direction on the theme that needs to
be taught. Members of the animation team collaborate to develop the featured
characters as well as plot structure. And we're closely with writers and
storyboard artists to develop the approved idea into a storyline. Once a
complete script is ready, the whole team gathers together for a table read. This is
the first time the team hears the whole script being read aloud. Dialogs meant to
be heard. So when we read it aloud at the table read, we pick up on things we
didn't see in the written script. We're able to tighten the story and make it as
clear as possible. The script is reviewed by the research team for accuracy.
Then it's revised, polished, and submitted to the teaching committee for approval.
With an approved script in hand, the director then works with an artist to start
turning words into pictures, visualizing each scene on a storyboard. First come
the rough boards showing what will be included in each shot. When it comes to
the animation world, really everything you see on screen has to be designed and
created. From the characters, furniture, the props, the environment are all
created by a designer. The storyboard really helps us figure out what exactly we
need to create so that we're not creating too much or too long. Once approved by
the director, the storyboard artist cleans up each of the boards. Preliminary
recordings of dialogue, music, and sound effects are added. These are then used
by the director and compositor to create an animatic. An animatic is a rough
draft of the entire video. The animatic is very important for us. Now we the
director and more importantly, the teaching committee. They can see the entire
video before actually making it and with that they can review it and give us a
proper direction. The finished animatic is submitted to the teaching committee
for review. Based on direction from the committee, the team makes sure that the
teaching points come across clearly and that the finished product is true to
the spirit and intent of the approved concept for the video. Finally, using the
approved animatic as a blueprint, full production begins. Really everything in
animation can be very time consuming. An animator working full-time here at
Bethel may be able to produce four to six seconds of animation in one week and
that doesn't even include other aspects that are very important such as
modeling, rigging, lighting, compositing, and many others. From the examples shown
here, you can see just how closely the final version of the video make Jehovah
happy follows the animatic. Pre-production tools such as storyboards and
animatics do more than save the organization time and money. They enable the
teaching committee to carefully evaluate every project along the way from the
initial approved concept to the final product in order to keep providing videos
that help all of us honor our friend Jehovah. Isn't it amazing to see all the
work that goes into our videos? Jehovah provides for his people just what they
need at the right time. Truly, he is with these people. Brother Lush, I know you
have some thoughts on this. I'd like to talk about a very common expression in
the Bible. The expression is, I am with you. 13 times it's attributed to a
statement from Jehovah. Three times it's something that Jesus said to one or more
of his disciples. Of course, there are dozens of other times that the same
sentiment is expressed using similar wording. Few things in the world equal
the joy humans experience than the birth of a child. As children grow up, they
are sometimes exposed to situations that tend to cause nervousness or even fear.
So a parent may occasionally feel compelled to reassure a child. Have no fear. I am
with you. Jehovah loves his services if they were his children. Likewise, at John
131, Jesus' feelings for his disciples are well expressed. There it says, Jesus
having loved his own who were in the world loved them to the end. So when we face
fears, trials or causes for anxiety, both our Heavenly Father and his son, Jesus,
we assuredly say, I am with you. Think of the righteous man, Noah. Genesis 6.9 says
that Noah walked with the true God. There's no doubt that Jehovah was with Noah. He
preserved him and his family through the flood. Afterward, Jehovah further
proved he was with Noah. In Genesis 9, Jehovah said, I am now establishing my
covenant with you. Never again will all flesh be destroyed by the waters of the
flood. Jehovah could have made that determination and promised himself that he
wouldn't do that again, but instead he reached out to Noah and reassured him
that he was with him by making the rainbow covenant with Noah and his offspring.
Using similar terminology, Jehovah indicated that he was with Abraham, Isaac,
Jacob, Joseph, Moses, Joshua and Gideon. They were all individuals that Jehovah
was pleased with, so he reassured them he was with them. How about a group of
people? Is Jehovah moved to feel the same way toward a large crowd of his
servants collectively? Please find with me Exodus 6, verse 6 and 7. The whole
nation of Israel was experiencing severe trials and suffering as slaves in Egypt.
Notice Jehovah's reassurance to the fast number of people.
Verses 6 and 7 stayed. Therefore, say to the Israelites, I am Jehovah and I will
bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians and rescue you from
their slavery and I will reclaim you with an outstretched arm and with great
judgments and I will take you in as my people and I will be your God and you will
certainly know that I am Jehovah your God who is bringing you out from under the
burdens of Egypt. If that great mixed group of people would follow his
leadings, he said he'd take them in. He would be their God. What was he saying? He
was reassuring them. I will be with you and he was for 40 years in the wilderness.
He was with them feeding them, providing water for them and ensuring their
clothes and sandals would not way out protecting them from poisonous snakes and
so forth. And later, when entering the land of promise, he protected them
during enemy warfare. Jehovah promised to be with and to support the kings of
Israel as long as they heeded his commandments and direction. King Solomon was
told, Jehovah, you God will not desert you or abandon you but he will be with
you. King Acer was informed. Jehovah is with you as long as you remain with him.
When faced with overwhelming enemy forces, King Jehosephat was told,
tomorrow go out against them and Jehovah will be with you. Jehovah also proved to
be with the many prophets that he sent out in his name. Just one example is
Jeremiah. Imagine if you had Jeremiah's assignment. Suppose you had been
directed to deliver a scathing denunciation and judgment against wicked
kings, corrupt priests and false prophets. How would you feel under qualified?
Would you feel like a little child challenging a whole group of evil grownups?
Notice how Jeremiah felt as he expressed himself at Jeremiah chapter 1, verse 6.
But I said alas or so in Lord Jehovah, I do not know how to speak for I'm just a
boy. What were Jehovah's reassuring words in reply? Jeremiah 1, 8 and 9, do not
be afraid because of their appearance for I am with you to save you, declares Jehovah.
Then Jehovah stretched out his hand and touched my mouth and Jehovah said to me,
I have put my words in your mouth. If Jehovah put the words that you were to say in your mouth,
you'd no longer feel like a little child, would you? We don't think of Jeremiah as being an
incredible Superman. He was a human like us. It's of interest that though Jeremiah lived in
another time and place, he faced situations similar to those we face. We interact with different
types of people in our daily life at work and at school. Some of them can be intimidating.
And like Jeremiah, Jehovah has commissioned us to go to strangers and preach. We share the good
news of the kingdom. Some are interested, others are just plain apathetic, but at times we may come
across someone who is angry and may even be threatening. This is the time to remember Jeremiah.
Though initially timid, he courageously faced the challenge of an intimidating response.
How did he rally to the occasion? It was because Jehovah had reassured him, I am with you.
He said, I have put my words in your mouth. Does Jehovah do something similar for us?
Yes. Long after Jeremiah and the other faithful ones that were recorded in the Hebrew
scriptures came and went, Jehovah has proved to be with true Christians both past and present.
Find with me John chapter 8. Think of Jesus. It's true he was a perfect man, but did Jehovah leave
him all alone? John 8.16, what did Jesus himself say? And yet even if I do judge, my judgment
is truthful because I am not alone, but the Father who sent me is with me. We might be thinking
of that intimidating person in the ministry. Even if you are facing the person without the fellow
witness standing beside you, are you really all alone? Jesus knew that at the most stressful
and emotionally draining time during his human life, his disciples would leave him all alone,
but was he really alone? Let's read the inspired account at John 1632. Again, these are Jesus'
own words. Look, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when each one of you will be scattered
to his own house and you will leave me alone, but I am not alone because the Father is with me.
Jesus was not alone during his most anxious moments, Jehovah was with him.
If you think you are alone standing at the door of an irritated householder, think again.
Jehovah is with you. You have more with you than if you had your whole congregation standing in
the person's front yard. Well, why did Jesus share this precious insight with us? Look at the next
verse. Jesus explains his reason for saying what he did, John 1633. I have said these things to
you so that by means of me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but take
courage, I have conquered the world. We thank Jesus for addressing our fears and concerns when
giving a witness. Instead of trembling with fear, he shared his confidence in Jehovah's support
so that we may have peace. He acknowledged that we would face tribulation, but he said we could
look at his example and have courage to deal with tribulation. Why? Jesus said in verse 32,
it was because the Father was with him. Do you recall that Jehovah told Jeremiah,
I have put my words in your mouth? Can Jehovah do the same for us when we are opposed by
unbelievers? The Christian Greek scriptures answer with a resounding yes. Please follow along
with the reading of the book of Mark chapter 13. And please notice that the setting Jesus describes
is the ministry preaching the good news. Maybe you've had a good morning in service,
but then you take one more door. The person is irate and even calls the police. What should you do?
What will you say when the police arrive? You don't have to be overly concerned. Why not?
Because similar to Jeremiah, Jehovah will in effect put his words in your mouth.
Mark 13, 10 and 11 says, also in all the nations, the good news has to be preached first.
And when they are taking you to hand you over, do not be anxious beforehand about what to say.
But whatever is given to you in that hour, say this, for you are not the one speaking,
but the Holy Spirit is. By this, do we mean that Jehovah will miraculously put words in your mouth
for you to say? Not necessarily. Did you notice verse 11 said that the Holy Spirit is the one
speaking? You've been taught the basis for your faith from the scriptures. And you know the reason
that you teach the Bible's message, that's all stored in your mind. So what's the Holy
Spirit's role when we are in an intimidating situation, when sharing the good news?
Jehovah is with you. He uses his Holy Spirit to bring to the surface some of those precious gems
that might be buried in your mind. You may be amazed at what you remember when put under pressure
by the authorities or even by outright opposers. In this way, Jehovah is with you.
Add to the fact that Jesus is with you in the disciple making work. Let's be reminded of this
very encouraging thought at Matthew 28, 19 and 20. Jesus was discussing our commission to preach,
teach, and make disciples. And how does he conclude the Bible book of Matthew? Let's read Matthew
28 verses 19 and 20. Go therefore and make disciples of people of all the nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
teaching them to observe all the things I've commanded you. And look, I am with you all the days
until the conclusion of the system of things. Jesus said that he is with us now when we are making
disciples and teaching people the truth, and he promises he'll support us in this important work
until the end of this wicked system of things. As prophesied during this time of the conclusion
of the system, we are being persecuted in different areas of the world. As the scriptures
show Satan and his angels are misleading the entire inhabited earth. Recently, Jehovah's people
have been persecuted in Russia. But will the persecution succeed in eliminating true worship
in that area of the world? No. Why not? It's because Jehovah is with them. He and Jesus promised,
I am with you. Russia did not learn from the past. It will prove to be the same for them as it was
for Nazi Germany under Hitler. Hitler thought his regime could eradicate true worship and God's
people from areas under their control, but they made a big mistake. While it is true, they murdered
some 2000 brothers. In the end, the scheme ended up in failure. Why? Because God was with us,
not with them. God with us, those words have decorated national emblems and even the uniforms of
soldiers of Prussia and the Sari's Russian Empire. These words were also on the belts of German
troops when they marched into Belgium in the year 1914 of Arkomenera. But they had it wrong.
The sovereign Lord Jehovah was with us, not with them. He is with all of us now. He'll be with us
during Armageddon. He'll be with us after Armageddon. He'll be with us at the end of the
thousand-year reign of Christ. He'll be with mankind at the end of 100,000 years. He'll be with
humans at the end of 100,000,000 years and at the end of 100,000,000 years times 100,000,000 years.
Jehovah will be with mankind forever and so will Jesus. They are both on record as saying,
I am with you. Thank you very much, Prussia Lush. Today, Jehovah's with these people
everywhere. We're going to see examples of this next. First is the experience of Adam and Nancy
Solomon. When they came into the truth, they faced better opposition from their families. Notice
how Jehovah was with them during the stressful time. My family are Hungarian Jews.
Most of them were killed in concentration camps. That's something that the Holocaust took for me.
They took the concept of family. I needed explanations. I needed to know why my family was murdered.
It made me really search at a very young age to see if there was a real religion out there.
It was just a secular thing to be Jewish. It was a cultural thing. A friend of mine came up to me
and said, I have to tell you something. I got this book from one of Jehovah's Witnesses. It is
the most beautiful book I have ever read. I said, I'll read it and it couldn't have been a week
later that I got a knock on my door. And there were two young women at the door who started to
talk to me about the Bible. Once I started having a study on a regular basis with Carolyn, I enjoyed
it more and more. One day my father was home. He just screamed at them and basically threw them out of
the house. It just progressed after that. There was just no peace at any time and lots of tears.
And I just couldn't understand why they weren't even asking me, well, what is it that you like
about this religion? Who are these people? Let us talk to no, nothing. It was very, very hard.
Shortly after my baptism, my mother came up to me and she said, your father and I are going out
for the day. You better not be here when we get home. I was 17 years old. I didn't know where I was
going to go. I didn't know what I was going to do. But I trusted in Jehovah and I picked up the
phone and I called my Carolyn. In what seemed like minutes, there were brothers and sisters at the
house. They were putting my things into this truck, bringing it over to Carolyn's house. And she said,
you can live with me. Before I was baptized, I would drive back and forth to school with a friend of
mine. Little by little, I was telling him what I was learning. He said, you know, I want to meet
these people. I have some questions. I had questions. I asked them, why do we die, why do we grow old,
so forth, and so on. And they went right to the Bible. And when I left the house after that,
I said, this is the truth. Growing up in my house, going to church every Sunday was something that you
had to do. But when I became a teenager, then religion became less in my life. And basketball
became more. Being a young man, you watched sports and you see the sports players made a lot of
money. My teachers would tell my parents that he's going to be a good basketball player, take care
of him. He could be worth, you know, several hundred thousand dollars by the time he graduates.
I received over 125 scholarships. Now you're talking about a free education just because you can
play basketball. So I realized, you know, in the early age that playing professional basketball
could mean a lot, not only for me, but for my family. So as far as God was concerned, I had a little
interesting God. Like I would ask my mom questions, but it wasn't until Nancy brought me to the
witnesses that really something just kicked in. I was studying and my mom, she was downstairs in the
basement. I heard her crying and said, what's wrong? And she said, I know you're going to become one
of those Jehovah's Witnesses. So realizing in my mind that I'm not going to become a basketball
player, I'm going to become one of Jehovah's Witnesses because that's more important. That affected me
many, many times. When others found out that I was going to become one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
people shied away. People tried to use you when they think you can give them something or you're
going to be somebody big to go to the direction of serving Jehovah completely. You lost all the
worldly people that you thought were your friends. And so that was in one summer. I started the
study with brother Crespo. And in six months, I was baptized. And then we decided to get married.
The scripture that says that even if my own father and my mother would abandon me,
that even Jehovah would take me in, it proved to be true in so many ways. Once you become one of
Jehovah's Witnesses, you're part of a family that will do anything for you. We've had adversity
over the years, but Jehovah never said everything is going to be perfect. What he said is when you
face these problems, you will not face them alone. And Jehovah has never let us down when it comes to
when their families and friends abandoned them. Did you notice how Jehovah continued to be worth
Adam and Nancy? This spiritual family immediately stepped in to support them. I appreciated what
Nancy said. Jehovah never said everything will be perfect. He said that when you face problems,
you will not face them alone. She and Adam never felt alone. Often we ask Jehovah to be with us
when we need something, a spiritual need or a material need. But as we'll see in this next
experience, even before we know that we have a need, Jehovah already knows what we need.
In the name of my name is Rita. My son is Jackson and my daughter is Sharina. It's just a three of us.
I have been working in a tea estate as a tea picker. One day I prayed to God very hard. I said,
please, help me to learn about the Bible. Within two days, Jehovah's Witnesses came and
knocked on my door and I agreed to study the Bible. I couldn't believe it. I only prayed yesterday
asking God to help me to study the Bible. Our meetings began at 4.45. But we have to get ready by
12 o'clock to attend the meetings. So we prepare our bags on Wednesday night. I carried two big bags
on my shoulders and walked for three and a half kilometers to get to the meetings on time.
We love seeing our brothers. That's why we always go to the meetings early. I have been pioneering
now for a year and six months. There is no greater happiness than what comes from pioneering.
This is a one-time opportunity. That is why we decided that we should give the best that we can
to Jehovah. Now I'm so happy to be serving this way. One time, I was not paid at all.
I didn't even have a rupee. On that day, my children and I ate well. But after eating,
we were very worried about what we were going to do the following day. So that night,
I said a prayer with the kids and we read the Bible. Jesus said,
don't worry about tomorrow. So I trusted that somehow Jehovah would give us what we needed.
It was 10.30 at night. I was fast asleep and the phone rang. Usually no one calls this late.
So I wondered who could be calling me this late. I picked up the phone and it was a brother on the line.
He said, sister, go to your bookshelf and take the greatest man book.
Then he asked me to turn to a page. When I turned to that page, there was 10,000 rupees
between those pages. We could not believe our eyes. It was exactly what we needed for that month's
expenses. A few days earlier, he and his wife had visited us and secretly left the money in the book
before leaving. So I thanked Jehovah in prayer with the kids. Jehovah already knows exactly what we
needed even before we realized it. Honestly, every night I opened the doors, go outside and look
up at the night sky. When I look up, I see many stars. I clearly meditate about his wisdom,
his power, what amazing things he is able to do. This earth, this universe, how amazingly well he cares
for them. He takes care of the smallest thing. I completely rely on Jehovah and then I remember
that Jehovah has the ability to help us with this Holy Spirit. He is such a loving father.
He is always holding our hand tight and no one can separate us from him. If anyone tries,
they would feel he is so generous with his love. He is so affectionate with us.
No one can take away the love Jehovah has for us.
Did you notice from Reader's experience that Jehovah is with us in several ways?
Reader really appreciates congregation meetings. They love being with their brothers.
How about you? Do you value the meetings and the encouraging association you find there?
Reader takes time to meditate on the wonders of creation. And she does more than marvel at what
she sees. She notices how Jehovah's love and care for her is evident in all these works.
She knows that Jehovah has the power to create anything, and he wants to use his power in her behalf.
It's no surprise that Reader is keenly aware of Jehovah's constant support in her pioneer ministry.
Jehovah proves to be with us in the ministry, whether we're preaching in our local community
or sharing in a special campaign. Let's go to Europe and watch your report about a special campaign.
As with Reader's experience, see if you can identify how Jehovah was with the many thousands
who volunteered for this campaign. In the central Europe branch territory, a special campaign
was organized. Actually the School for Branch Committee members triggered an evaluation
how much territory in the countries we oversee is not really covered thoroughly. So we asked our
circuit overseers to recommend us which sections of the congregation's territory could be listed as
so-called unassigned territory. All in all we received over 11,000 territories from the
congregations with approximately 3 million inhabitants. So because of this grand scale,
there was suddenly the idea why not organizing a special preaching campaign to cover all these
territories on one single weekend. This was really exciting. And after getting the branch
committee's approval, the service department started to organize it. To be honest, at first,
we were not really sure how the publishers would react to such a campaign.
But we fully trusted in Jehovah and the response was stunning. Over 20,000 publishers
participated and were assigned to all these territories throughout Germany.
The campaign took place on one weekend in May 2017 and was especially successful in
metropolitan areas, as in Berlin, Hamburg, or Düsseldorf. But I know how it's to come.
At one door, Amanda just arrived. He wanted to open his shop where he sells Arabian specialties.
We were able to show him a video in Arabic. Then he gave us his address and phone number.
He also agreed to have someone visit him again. Yes, it's really a privilege to join in such a
campaign and to see that every human is precious to Jehovah, no matter where they live or where they
come from. Because of the need and the fantastic response in 2017, it was decided to repeat such a
campaign in May 2018. And this time it was expanded to Switzerland, Austria, Luxembourg and
Lichtenstein. And now imagine over 32,000 publishers participated, which is actually over 60% more
than in May 2017. This was really faith strengthening and again, a lot of wonderful experiences
very parted. It's incredible. No matter where you are in Berlin, you can see small groups of
brothers everywhere. That was really great. In the ministry, we met a woman and she told us that she
had just prayed for a Bible study. We are now more than ever convinced that Jehovah leads all this
work through his angels. Today's Sunday, we had a nice experience. A woman called us from behind.
She had actually already passed us, but she had a feeling she had to go back again. She told us
later. After she had invited us to her home, we exchanged our contact information and could
also fill in their online contact form. Had we been in the territory just one minute later,
we would never have made the contact. This must have been guided by the angels.
Yesterday morning, while in the ministry, a young man ran after us and asked us what we were doing.
We explained it to him. He asked us why there is still so much evil in the world then.
In the afternoon, we were able to call on him again. We could start a Bible study right away
and arrange a return visit which we will make today. Being together with friends is just so great.
You're out and about with a large group. You meet up again regularly to change partners
and to relate experiences is just great. Thousands of videos were shown and a lot of Bible studies
were started. And what is very interesting, a lot of publishers felt motivated to expand the ministry
after the campaign. For sure, these preaching campaigns truly prove that Jehovah and Jesus are
directing the preaching work and the angels are helping us in reaching out to all people.
We really have a lot of reasons to be Jehovah's happy people. Jehovah truly proved to be with
all who volunteered to share in this campaign. Hell else could the good news reach three million
people in such a well-organized way. We'd like to thank the more than 32,000 brothers and sisters
who shared in their special work. As Brother Luci noted in his talk, Jehovah is with us in the
ministry. There is no doubt he is directing the global preaching work through Jesus and His angels.
Did you notice how many people were contacted soon after they prayed for a Bible study
or for a question to be answered? Isn't that interesting?
When we're together with a large group of Jehovah's people in the ministry and at our meetings and
assemblies, we really feel Jehovah's blessing, don't we? But what if we're isolated?
What if we're facing persecution? This is what Alphan's talk like spear in some years ago in Egypt.
Let's see how Jehovah proved to be with him.
What's going on there? What does this place look like? Where is it?
The officers get two soldiers to escort us to our cell where the brothers were.
We know that when people taken to the concentration camp, they spend his and some of them never
send back. When I was in a teenager, I liked the characters in the bar, like Abraham, Daniel, Moses.
I thought they're champions of the true worship. As some say, I felt jealous of them.
They got this huge relationship with God. So I'd like to be part of that. I'll continue to
the barber to get closer to God. I know he says you have a look after him. He will not abandon his seven.
So we try to encourage them, brothers, keep in mind that we hear because we worship Jehovah.
We set together to discuss what we're going to do to keep on as peaceful as strong. We thought
we need to pray. If we pick up a scripture every day, like a daily text, and then after that
result, a scripture, one will handle a talk from the memory of God and then an open discussion of
Bible question. At that stage, we didn't have Bible with us. The officers want to ask to renown our
face. So they told me to lay on the ground and they started to beat me.
The whole camp was around and one of the prisoners fainted.
Power started to pray to Jehovah. Jehovah helped me to be able to induce it. It was very severe
pain and I felt his help because after a few beating my body fell numb. I don't feel much more
pain. One of the prisoners said to me, if I get out of here alive, I will tell my children
that in the concentration camp, I've seen the Christian, remind me with the first century Christian
that they were happy even to die without renowning their face. One of the officers, this,
you know, a nice one that used to beat us very, very severely, came one day and he said,
we need two of you to come out and write a report about what do you believe.
So we thought about, is it wise to do that or maybe they use it against us? You know,
pray to Jehovah for help to make a decision. He to guide us what to do.
Same the end we reached a point that, well, we may get out, may not. So might as well give them a witness.
I told the officer, we need a Bible. He said, what for? I said to him because we need to
court from the Bible in this report. So he said, okay, you have a Bible in the soul. He said, yes,
I have a Bible. He said, okay, go and get your Bible. I want to my bag and picked up the Bible.
So I picked up the Bible of my hand, opened it, ran them, they are in such a rain.
Numbers, they looked at me, who wrote this book? I said to him, Moses. He said, you are a liar!
On the top of his voice. So I kept quiet and he closed the book again and opened it again.
At the same time, what kind of a lie is that?
You are a liar again on top of his head. I was racing in my mind where it is written and the
poverty that Jehovah told Moses to write any of these. He shot the book again for a fair
time and opened it again and he started reading the Lord's books.
So the officer looked at me with a big surprise in his face.
After we wrote the report, so I asked him, can we keep the Bible in place? He said, okay, keep the
Bible. So three months near the every day, the officer comes in and beat us and expects us to
compromise. We never did that. All I can say is Jehovah's hand. Jehovah's helping us to
endure, to continue to do his will, not compromising because we belong to him and we rhyme him.
God will not abandon his seven. Why was Alphonse thrown into prison? It wasn't because he refused
to say a simple greeting to the president of his country. No, that phrase was a political slogan.
Like many Jehovah's witnesses, Alphonse was persecuted for his neutrality.
What helped Alphonse to be loyal? He prayed. He prayed to maintain a strong spiritual routine.
He prayed when he had to make a decision and he prayed for help to endure brutal treatment.
Like Alphonse, do you depend on the power of prayer? Alphonse and earlier Rita
likened their relationship with Jehovah to holding his hand. Rita said, Jehovah holds our hand tight.
Alphonse said, all I can say, it is Jehovah's hand. What a beautiful image. That's how close we
can be to Jehovah. This month's music video reminds us of that. Jehovah's always willing to
hold our hand. It's entitled Jehovah's always by our side.
Jehovah's always by our side. He'll take my earth as a sack. He'll give you to face it all.
What a beautiful soul. For many months on JW Broadcasting, we've enjoyed a series of video dramatizations
about applying Bible principles in our lives. We have learned that we can enjoy happier lives today
and live in a way that pleases God when we apply Jehovah's principles and standards.
Applying God's principles also gives us a wonderful hope. As our concluding video in this
series shows, focusing on our future hope helps us to build a faith to withstand trials with face
today. See if you remember these scenes. Getting baptized was the most important decision I
ever made, but it took some time to realize that was just a start of my Christian life. Sometimes
it was hard to show courage. Why don't you people get involved and make a real difference for once?
And it was hard for my son too. No thanks. So much Jehovah's witness and I don't celebrate for this.
I really liked Lucas and he was very sick. I really wanted to sign his birthday card,
but that helped me to see how Jehovah felt about it and that helped me to be brave.
My students are in the card, but I'm going to do something else really this.
My parents had always set a good example for me, but after I moved to serve where the need was
greater, it seemed like my parents were growing apart. Are you both doing okay? Because you don't
look okay. Of course, we are okay. We're doing wonderful, right? Yeah, we're doing good.
I was really worried. Later, they told me what helped them. I was their love for Jehovah.
They meditated on the example of Abraham and Sarah, who showed honor to each other by listening
and by caring. That example really helped my parents. And since then, I've seen how it can
help in any relationship. I'm a long way from home, but showing love to others, it helps me to
stay happy in my assignment. Now, Dr. Tolders, that our baby would likely be born with
severe problems and could even die. It was more than I could bear. And because my husband was not
one of Jehovah's Witnesses, I needed God's help more than ever to calm my heart and help me explain
why I could never have an abortion. And even though it took me years before I would agree to a
Bible study, and even more years before I made enough changes to qualify for baptism, the life we
have now, serving Jehovah together. Nothing could make me happier. Nothing could make us happier.
Happiness really does come from serving Jehovah, but serving him faithfully definitely takes courage.
It was so hard for me to turn down that girl at school, and I felt so guilty for how involved I'd
gotten with her. My uncle used the Bible to help me get back on track, and to remind me of two other
very important things that Jehovah was proud of me and that I was not alone. James 1, 2 and 3 says,
consider it all joy my brothers when you meet with various trials, knowing as you do that this
tested quality of your faith produces endurance. I think about that scripture a lot, because soon
I'll probably be sent to prison for refusing military service. Being courageous with that
classmate helped me build the faith and courage that I need now. I can give up anything for Jehovah.
I might live in a small cell for now, but in paradise I'm going to travel everywhere.
Sometimes I get lonely, but that's okay. It's a choice that I've made to stay in my assignment right
now. In the future, if I choose to get married, I hope to have a marriage like my parents.
I really hope that Lucas is resurrected so I can show him around paradise and teach him more about
Jehovah. I showed him pictures, but the real thing will be so much better. Then I can hold my baby
girl again. Our program has focused on the many ways that Jehovah is with us. He's with us as we
worked towards dedication and baptism. He's with us at our congregation meetings, and when we are
with our spiritual family, he's with us as we successfully face persecution and hardship.
And Jehovah is with us when we share the good news of his kingdom with everyone we meet.
And Brother Maray, I appreciate that you were here with me for this month's program.
Thank you, Brother Losh. We end this month's program with a visit to our brothers and sisters
in Tenerife. Tenerife is the largest of the Canary Islands, an archipelago off the northwest coast of
Africa. These islands were formed by volcanic eruptions. The highest point is the Dormantede volcano
on Tenerife. Here the weather is mild and sunny throughout the year. This is made to Canary
Islands famous for their extensive banana plantations. Tenerife is a popular tourist destination.
It's home to nearly a million people, but more than 10 million visitors come every year to enjoy
the beaches, the lush terrain, and the food. The island of Tenerife has 33 congregations,
and more than 3,000 publishers. 492 of whom are regular pioneers.
Because of the influx of visitors from all over the world, our brothers and sisters preach
over 15 languages, including Russian, German, French, Hindi, and Romanian. They preach
everywhere in the cities, as well as the rural and mountainous regions.
Our brothers and sisters in Tenerife send you their warm, Christian love and greetings.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.